# CS340
# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
To ensure the programs that I write are easily readable, maintainable, and adaptable, I strive to follow industry standard best practices when writing code. Some of the areas that I focus on are meaningful utilization of whitespace, following accepted naming conventions for objects within the code, and leaving comments to clarify the purpose of code when necessary. In doing so, I am able to produce code that is easy to understand, which also helps the code be more easily maintained and adapted for different purposes. When developing the CRUD operations used in this project, I wrote each method one-by-one and then combined them all into one functional Python class. Taking this approach helped make testing and debugging more effective and less time-consuming in the long run as I was able to focus on one operation at a time, ensuring proper functionality of each operation before combining them together. In the future, this CRUD class could be easily reused for other projects that utilize Python and MongoDB, even if these other projects do not utilize the Dash framework as this one has.
# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
When approaching the requirements of this project, I drew connections between the problems being presented and the material being covered in the course's textbook and supplemental resources. By addressing each requirement individually, I was able to provide adequate solutions for all of them. This incremental approach is one that I have been using consistently throughout my education, this project simply had more steps than previous courses had required. This approach has worked well for projects of differing scale, and will continue to help with other future projects.
# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientists leverage computing power to create solutions, from automating mundane tasks to controlling critical infrastructure. As more processes are able to be completed using technology, the importance of computer scientists increases because they are ultimately the ones that are developing and improving this technology. In this project, the end result was a user-friendly dashboard that allowed users to view information for different animals in and around Austin, TX. This will allow the company to provide a better service to their customers, increasing the value of the company.
